Add EIP: eth_config JSON-RPC Method (#9493)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-config.md

#### `systemContracts`

A JSON object representing system-level contracts relevant to the fork, as introduced in their defining EIPs. Keys are the contract names (e.g., `BEACON_ROOTS_ADDRESS`) from the first EIP where they appeared, sorted alphabetically. Values are 20-byte addresses in `0x`-prefixed hexadecimal form, with leading zeros preserved. Omitted for forks before Cancun.

For Cancun the only system contract is `BEACON_ROOTS_ADDRESS`.

For Prague he system contracts are (in order) `BEACON_ROOTS_ADDRESS`, `CONSOLIDATION_REQUEST_PREDEPLOY_ADDRESS`, `DEPOSIT_CONTRACT_ADDRESS`, `HISTORY_STORAGE_ADDRESS`, and `WITHDRAWAL_REQUEST_PREDEPLOY_ADDRESS`.

Future forks MUST define the list of system contracts in their meta-EIPs.

## Rationale

### Why Enumerate Precompiles? (And in General, Why Track a Particular Config Item?)

The purpose of this specification is to enable nodes to advertise, prior to a fork, that they have the correct configurations loaded and ready. Past testnet and mainnet forks have revealed clients with incorrect precompile sets, chain IDs, deposit contract addresses, and other configuration errors.

> For precompiles in particular there has been discussion about removing or replaceing precomiles in future forks, so a full enumeration of precompiles will reflect removal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For precompiles in particular there has been discussion about removing or replacing precompiles in future forks, so a full enumeration of precompiles will reflect removal.
```

---
eip: XXXX
title: eth_config JSON-RPC Method
description: A JSON-RPC method that describes the configuration of the current and next fork
author: Danno Ferrin (@shemnon)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eth-config-json-rpc-method/23183
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: Interface
created: 2025-03-18
---

## Abstract

This document describes an RPC method that provides node-relevant configuration data for the current and next fork.

## Motivation

Throughout Ethereum's history, there have been multiple instances where a client was not correctly configured for an upcoming hard fork, causing it to fall out of consensus when the fork boundary was crossed. Most incidents have been minor, such as a single client forking the chain in proof-of-work or having its blocks orphaned in proof-of-stake.

> The most significant occurrence was during the Pectra activation on the Holesky testnet. Four out of six clients on the network had an incorrect configuration for the deposits contract. Instead of being orphaned, the incorrect chain was justified, and the side effects persist on Holesky even after reaching finality.

Author: fixed.  Samples migrated to Hoodi

To generate a fork hash, the JSON object representing the fork configuration is converted into canonical form as per [RFC-8785](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8785) (in short no whitespace, sorted keys, and numeric values in their simplest form). The result is then hashed using CRC-32.

The configuration object MUST contain exactly the parameters specified in the fork’s meta-EIP and their configured values—no more, no less. Explanatory comments or client-specific extensions MUST NOT be included in the resulting object.

### Fields in the Configuration Object

Each configuration object MUST contain the following fields, presented in canonical order. This RPC assumes the network is post-merge, and no accommodations are specified for proof-of-work-related issues.

Future forks may add, adjust, remove, or update fields. The respective changes MUST be defined in their respective meta-EIPs.

#### `activationTime`

The fork activation timestamp, represented as a JSON number in Unix epoch seconds (UTC). For the "current" configuration, this reflects the actual activation time; for "next," it is the scheduled time if known, or null if unscheduled.

#### `blobsSchedule`

> The blob configuration parameters for the specific fork, as defined in the genesis file. This is a JSON object with three members —  `basefeeUpdateFraction`, `max`, and `target` — all represented as JSON numbers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The blob configuration parameters for the specific fork, as defined in the genesis file. This is a JSON object with three members —  `baseFeeUpdateFraction`, `max`, and `target` — all represented as JSON numbers.
```

  "blobSchedule": {
    "baseFeeUpdateFraction": 5007716,
    "max": 9,
    "target": 6
  },
  "chainId": "0x4268",
  "precompiles": {
    "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000001": "ECREC",
    "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000002": "SHA256",
    "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000003": "RIPEMD160",
    "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000004": "ID",
    "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000005": "MODEXP",
    "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000006": "BN256_ADD",
    "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000007": "BN256_MUL",
    "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000008": "BN256_PAIRING",
    "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000009": "BLAKE2F",
    "0x000000000000000000000000000000000000000a": "KZG_POINT_EVALUATION",
    "0x000000000000000000000000000000000000000b": "BLS12_G1ADD",
    "0x000000000000000000000000000000000000000c": "BLS12_G1MULTIEXP",
    "0x000000000000000000000000000000000000000d": "BLS12_G2ADD",
    "0x000000000000000000000000000000000000000e": "BLS12_G2MULTIEXP",
    "0x000000000000000000000000000000000000000f": "BLS12_PAIRING",
    "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000010": "BLS12_MAP_FIELD_TO_CURVE",

>     "0x0000000000000000000000000000000000000011": "BLS12_MAP_FIELD_TO_CURVE"

Reviewer 2: Ah another one 0x10 and 0x11 are the same precompile :thinking:

Author: Fixed.

Also, some other BLS names did not align with EIP names, updated those.
